welcome back ladies and gentlemen so
happy you made time for the chp
one of the top china history related
podcasts out there
10 years running i have several
pdfs of awards attesting to this fact
what a mess last episode once the first
tongue emperor handed all his authority
to his eunuchs
they never let go and were able to
entrench themselves to
such an extent that the last hundred
years of the dynasty
the chief eunuch and all those below him
on the inner palace pyramid
held on to all the important lovers of
power
including the military and the
government was hopelessly
divided on everything and military
governors had turned into military
warlords
the tang dynasty never recovered and we
finished off last episode with the
eventual death of the dynasty after li
mao jun
ju wen and others coordinated their
attacks
that the tongue after a glorious
and ignominious 289 year run
was finally finished off in 907
five dynasties and ten kingdoms period
followed 907 and 979
the kitan liao dynasty 9 16 to 11 25. if
you're interested in the
kitan liao i cordially invite you to go
check out that
episode chp 126.
during this udai shirgwa period
following the tongue china was all
divided up into different
political entities and then in 960
zhao kwang yin a military strong man in
the hojo
the later joe dynasty the fifth of these
five dynasties he usurped the throne
put an end to the dynasty and founded
the great
song dynasty 960-1279
although it all came crashing down in a
tragic and spectacular fashion
these 319 years were a true great leap
forward for china
and chinese culture even though it had
been a good
half century since the fall of the final
tongue emperor and the founding of the
song the general feeling about eunuchs
was still quite fresh
and it was jiao quang yin himself early
on in his reign as the first
song emperor taitsu who demanded someone
keep a lid on these eunuchs and do not
let a repeat of the tongue happen in his
song dynasty they put a cap on the
number of eunuchs at
180 about 99
800 less than the ming emperors would
employ much later on
down the timeline and i must say like
with the early emperors of the tongue
where eunuchs were indispensable they
continued on like they had always done
the way they were intended to serve they
still acted in the capacity of the
emperor's
personal agents supervised the
day-to-day administration of palace
maintenance
services and operations and personally
looked after
all those who lived inside and quite
often became their closest confidence
and of course their original raison
d'etre they still guarded the women's
quarters and
well you know made sure no funny
business was going on that might put a
green hat on the emperor's head so to
speak
so the song dynasty it was rather
lacking
in the kind of eunuch drama that was
seen in the tongue
from the end of shenzhen to emperor i
and certainly nothing like the ten
attendants during the
han dynasty's final years
but there was one guy well there were
several but only one
stood out the khalid of the
song dynasty eunuchs and certainly of
the northern song dynasty
he actually makes a few top 10 worst
eunuchs list
but i don't know in many popular
accounts of late
northern song history the eunuch general
tongue
he gets blamed for being the biggest
contributor to the demise and
ultimate horrific end to the song
dynasty headquartered in kaifeng
province however the dynasty
after suffering such blunt force trauma
at the hands of the churchians from the
north
while the jiao ruling family would rise
again in hangzhou
as the southern song dynasty so
tun guan why did he deserve such ill
repute and downright infamy
well we all know the huizon story right
chp episodes 132-135
a four-parter won all kinds of awards
in the wait zone category of course the
eunuch general tun guan
was emperor huizong's right-hand man
well one of them
he's also a character from the great
novel to water margin but
let's not get into that here tongwon
as a general er he was no mong tian or
baichi
but under the emperor shanzong's reign
tongue had won some key battles
he wasn't the only eunuch serving in the
song military which
was by no means uncommon late in the
northern song
i'm not sure of his win-loss record but
thanks to his luck on the battlefield
he came to huizong's attention and
became one of his
trusted advisors i think it was written
in the official histories that
tongue was famous for his overuse of
flattery
and the whole fine art of paima tea
by 1116 he had become huizong's go-to
guy for all political matters
first time since the fall of the tongue
that a eunuch had risen that high
i'm sure that raised a few eyebrows
around the palace
i don't want to get sidetracked or
anything but huizong's most
right hand of right-hand men was tai
ching his chancellor
tai ching had not survived a political
struggle and had been banished
and it was tongue who advocated for tai
jing and got him back his old job
but later on tai ching will come to
greatly fair
tongue tongue spent a decade
fighting the western shia again the
official song sure or official history
of
song says he fabricated military reports
from the front
he had been sent out west to around
shanxi
ningxia and gansu to put the western
shah away
they had been nibbling away on china's
western edges for too long
and needed to be taught a lesson
well the ones who ended up getting
schooled was song china
and the whole thing when it was all over
ended with the huizong emperor having to
send a formal apology to the western
shah for all the troubles
and dongguan all along had been sending
these glowing reports from the front
to kaifung and had risen higher up the
power structure thanks to that
and huizong couldn't say enough good
things about him
with all this power and unearned
prestige
huizong sent tongue on a high-profile
mission
to the kitan liao empire to negotiate
with them about handing back the
infamous
16 prefectures that stretched from
shanxi province east to tianjin
this part of china and a core part of
china at that
had been lost following the fall of the
tongue and then acquired by the liao and
they were on a roll back in the 10th
century
kuizong wanted these 16 prefectures back
and he sent ton guan
to see if there was any chance of making
a deal
the liao they knew full well who tongue
was and
they refused to deal with a eunuch the
mission and the objective all fell apart
from there
and tongue went back empty-handed but he
did come up with a plan
and i think it's probably this that
later on earned him so much
a program he was the one
who suggested to emperor huidzong why
don't we make an alliance with the
churchians up north and together
we'll take down the kitans and once
that's done
we'll convince the churchians to let us
take back the 16 prefectures
waitong though he'll live to regret it
later thought it was a splendid idea and
gave it his full backing
going against the majority of his
ministers and just as this started to
ramp up in 1120
down in churchiang province a rebellion
broke out led by a man named fang la
huey zong sent hong kwan to go deal with
this and though he didn't capture
fanglaw personally he was instrumental
in putting down the rebellion in 1121
and accompanied the rebel leader back to
kaifang and hit front row seats
at his execution which was great because
fang la got the old
linger or death of a thousand cuts
but tongues acclaim wasn't to last and
in his campaign to rest the 16
prefectures away from the liao
he ended up suffering a disastrous
defeat
and i won't retell the whole lugubrious
tale of the last years of the northern
song except to say after tongwan's
forces got routed by the liao
the churchians took notice and they saw
the song was standing on feet of clay
and were
ripe and ready to be taken down but
before they did that
the churches went and extinguished the
kitan liao themselves and then they
turn their sights on the song and by
1127 the northern
song dynasty was out of business the
capital kaifung
wrecked and raised to the ground and
just a mere
shell of its former splendor the whole
royal court
was shivering away up in manchuria
suffering fates that
rival death itself as i said
the song dynasty made a comeback in the
south as far as the north of china went
that was surrendered to the churchian
jin dynasty
about 107 years later those guys will
get walloped by the mongols
eunuchs continued serving the jal family
during the southern song but there was
no
power grabs or anyone who rose to
tongues notoriety so
we may as well jump to what's really the
one true period
in chinese history where eunuchs will
earn that
most foul and odious reputation
as the most avaricious revengeful
hateful
power-hungry self-serving you-know-whats
tongue by the way when the gene forces
were coming in for the kill
well he accompanied huizong to the south
trying to lead him to safety
but the chinzong emperor who got to
inherit the throne from his father
huizong
ordered tongue killed the order was
carried out and
tongues head was brought back to kaifeng
so before we jump ahead let me again
emphasize
all these rotten eunuchs who were so
deceitful
they were not representative of the
whole group the overwhelming majority
just
did their jobs and had no impact on
decision making
let alone the direction of chinese
history
two noteworthy song dynasty eunuchs i'll
mention them very quickly
uh leo chengwei 951-1016 the beginning
of the song
he did a lot to standardize weights and
measures that
hung around forever he's also credited
with inventing the dungs
a small still yard you've seen these
things before i'm sure a scale
that's used for weighing precious metals
gems medicine
and you know these kinds of things that
required precision
these dances were still being used on
the streets of hong kong when i was
there in the 1990s
giachen 1010 at 1070 he was another
eunuch serving at the palace in the
early song
i'm sure he has a significant entry in
needham's
science and civilization in china he was
noteworthy among
other reasons for describing pascal's
triangle
600 years before blaise pascal himself
came up with it
just one of china's great mathematicians
jiashin so nothing really extraordinary
to mention about eunuchs during the gren
dynasty
the palace officials took measures to
ensure they never ran into any
eunuch problem eunuchs who served at the
urine court
came from all over the empire during the
ming
however they developed quite a problem
so without further ado let's see how the
most famous
and notorious eunuch infestation in all
of chinese history unfolded
we'll look at the big four and of course
others and you'll be able to see
all the destructive things these late
ming dynasty eunuchs did
to cause the dynasty to fall so hard
like it did
choo yeon chang after he founded the
ming dynasty
he recognized immediately that although
one had to be vigilant to the extreme
about palace eunuchs
he still used them maybe only a hundred
to start but
he saw their value many eunuchs were
drawn
from captured soldiers and civilians
defeated in the ming conquest of the
bordering regions the most famous of
course being changhu
who was captured as a young lad down in
the
vietnam area in unikized and many of
those who
today count themselves among china's 56
ethnic minorities
they too when they went down and defeat
against the ming forces
they too provided another reliable pool
of eunuchs
and we'll look at one of them next
episode the organization of the eunuchs
created this
vast bureaucracy and julian zhang the
emperor he got things going early
creating 12
offices in the palace to manage every
single aspect of palace administration
and operations and by the end of his
reign in 1398
a full-fledged bureaucracy was in place
called the 24 offices or archer yama
12 directorates four agencies and eight
bureaus
and the directorate of palace eunuchs
the naekong jin
that office ran the whole show inside
the palace
the boss was the chief eunuch who
oversaw everything
this is how the seed got planted the
hongwo emperor was adamant that eunuchs
be kept illiterate and must not get
involved in
any aspect of politics in fact
he had an iron plaque placed in a
prominent location in the palace that
said plainly quote
eunuchs are forbidden to interfere with
government affairs
those who attempt to do so will be
subjected to capital punishment
end quote well despite all these
warnings and prohibitions it didn't take
very long for this well-intentioned
organization put in place by this
dynasty founder
to grow into a vast jungle if anyone
could look ahead to the
15th or 16th centuries maybe they might
have done this a little differently
the problem started perhaps during the
reign of the hongwu emperor's son
young look as you no doubt recall he was
involved in a very nasty succession
struggle with his nephew
who ended up being named the heir to the
throne instead of him
and this whole bloody brouhaha led the
yongla
emperor to go to fantastic and violent
extremes
to stamp out this chenwen emperor as
well as all his supporters
family and political allies and the
yongla
emperor turned to his eunuchs and gave
them a significant role in doing his
bidding
the court officials well they leaned in
the
genuine emperor's direction rather than
under yongla who never forgot the
assistance of his eunuchs during his
power struggle
made the eunuchs an extension of his
authority and because of this
government officials dared not challenge
them in any way
to do so would be suicidal and
tantamount to going against the emperor
set up in 1384 the silicene
or innocuous sounding directorate of
ceremonial
became the most powerful office after
the emperor
and he who led this directorate led the
whole eunuch bureaucracy
besides the management of all eunuch
personnel on the payroll
this head of the solitien oversaw both
banal and critical jobs such as
maintaining palest security
the eunuch school the imperial libraries
and works of
art the imperial tombs and filtering
every and all
documents that the emperor had to see he
was also responsible
for meeting out rewards and punishments
in general the director of this siligen
directorate of ceremonial he had the
most face time with the emperor himself
and for this reason his influence in
bending decisions in a certain direction
was most strong 1420 the imperial palace
in beijing was completed
this is the famous forbidden city
china's number one tourist attraction
well top five i'm sure and in this place
all the eunuchs mighty and mundane all
lived
worked and died for the next 500 years
this was the center of their world until
the last of them
got kicked out in the 1920s and once the
palace was built
and staffed and ready for the business
of running the empire
another institution was established this
was the eastern depot
or dongchang they worked in consort with
the
dreaded ginny way the embroidered
uniform guard who was set up under
hongwoo
their headquarters used to be located
right where the great hall of the people
stands today
they were both an imperial secret police
personal bodyguard to the emperor and
also a full-blown military force who
took their marching orders
directly from the emperor later on
the eastern depot will take over the
embroidered uniform
guard and you'll have all these eunuchs
controlling not only the secret police
but the military as well
and through their control of the emperor
they ran the government too
they were like the spanish inquisition
and nobody ever expected them i
mentioned it before
let me say it again eunuchs thrived
best whenever there was some weak or
incompetent emperor on the throne
emperors like hongwoo yong they wouldn't
stand for any eunuch power grabbing
but if you had someone who wasn't so
interested in the job
this is where the eunuch stepped in and
as we saw in the han
and in the tongue once they settled in
he had to burn the place down to get rid
of them many scholars will tell you by
the end of the reign of emperor shenda
grandson of yongla it was mostly all
downhill for the ming dynasty
shenda 1425-14
he is sometimes called the huizong of
the ming due to his passion for
literature and the arts and
his patronage of so many people of
talent
so let's introduce the first of the four
eunuch dictators who attracted the most
infamy during the ming dynasty
this one huangjong got his start under
shenda
wang chun has particular notoriety
beyond
the epic fortune he accumulated and the
extent of his avaricious personality
that drove him to
never stop adding to his horn of plenty
his main victim was the jungtong emperor
he was all of eight years old when
shenda died
all too soon emperor shrinta had found
all kinds of good traits in huangjun
and helicoptered him up to the
directorate of ceremonial
so when the emperor died so sudden and
unexpected
without any clear succession plans
having been worked out
wong chun was perfectly positioned to
make a power grab
his nemesis was the granddaughter
empress who tried to protect the young
jungtong
emperor she hung in there doing her best
to shield the emperor from unique
influence until
1442 when she died the emperor zhangtong
was only 15.
and with this political obstacle out of
the way
this is where wang chun steps forward
and puts the
first nail in the ming dynasty coffin
wang chun what is there to say he was no
duke of joe that's for sure
with this young lamb and his care the
emperor
rather than protect him and wisely guide
him in the ways of leadership
uh wang jun embarked on one of the most
reckless attempts to
further his own fortunes and all of
china's long history which was already
quite long by wong chun's time
so besides his little reign of terror
and all the ultra corruption
the big thing that earned him the first
spot among the four eunuch dictators of
the ming dynasty
was the tulmu ball chirpien fortress
crisis
the rump mongol dynasty now called the
northern yen
well during the reign of the jiangtong
emperor these
oyrat mongols had among their ranks one
of those occasional
charismatic and capable warrior leaders
who
after rising to the top united everyone
and
went on a rampage and this was essential
he was terrorizing the ming up in the
north around shenshi
and putting a lot of pressure on the
dynasty so close to beijing
wang zhan came up with a plan to put
together a fighting force that would be
too big to veil
history records this massive army was
about half a million men strong
and wang jun's plan called for this
force to be
sent in the direction of da tong in
shanxi and once there
he would teach essen a lesson and wang
chun
put himself in charge of the army he
wasn't
what you would call a military man but
how hard could it be to lead an army at
half a million troops
now wang jun's hidden agenda to this
whole debacle in the making
was for him and his eunuch agents to
skim off the profits of military
procurement
and to manage all these other schemes to
essentially
make money for himself and his relatives
everyone at the imperial court was dead
set against this military plan
no one thought it was a good idea and
when wang chun said he was going to hit
the jungtong emperor himself
lead the troops into battle everyone
knew this was a disaster waiting to
happen
but wang chun had blinders on and was
thinking solely about the prophets he
was going to
rake in during the course of this battle
against the northern iran mongols
when the two armies met up at a place
called tulmu
about halfway between beijing and zhang
jiako
the ming army of half a million men
was wiped out by a mongol force of
it said only twenty thousand troops in
the annals of chinese history
it's called the worst military defeat of
a chinese army since the age when
pangu was walking the earth and when the
dust settled
guess who captured the changtong emperor
yeah the oyrat mongols
essen could hardly believe his good luck
he thought he was sitting on a gold mine
but as we'll find out back in beijing
upon hearing of the chengtong emperor's
terrible predicament
they opted to simply give him up for
lost and rather than negotiate for his
return
instead they put the emperor's brother
on the throne and he became the jingtai
emperor
with the palace in crisis following this
tumu incident
the minister of war yuchen became the
man of the
hour organizing the defense and stepping
up to manage the crisis precipitated by
the zhengtong emperor's capture
many said if not for yu chin that would
have been the end of the ming dynasty
right there so essen thought he had the
ultimate bargaining chip but as we'll
see
after endless negotiation and the mean
side
saying hey you could keep him finally
essen
just let him go and this pile of gold
that he thought he was sitting on turned
out to be nothing but pyrite
and after the emperor was captured and
the ming
army was wiped out everyone turned on
wang chun
blaming everything on him and rightly so
and he was given a very bloody and
violent send-off so september 1449
a date which will live in infamy in
chinese military history
the following year the chiang tong
emperor after being released by essen
showed up in beijing thinking he'd be
welcomed back with a parade and lots of
fanfare and that he'd
quickly be restored as emperor but he
ended up being sorely disappointed and
got sequestered away and viewed as one
big embarrassment
and the epilogue to all this is that
his brother who took over his emperor
following the tulmu crisis
who reigned as emperor jingtai after he
died
in 1457 the jungtong emperor
ended up being restored to the throne
and got to enjoy a second stint as
ruler of china reigning this time as the
tenshun emperor
which i guess in a way makes him the
grover cleveland
of chinese imperial history at least in
the ming that is
and the jing thai emperor yeah he was
the benjamin harrison
and for good measure the now tenshun
emperor went and had yuchen executed for
not trying to negotiate his return
and facilitating having his brother take
over his emperor
and leaving him in that disgraceful
limbo for so long
eating nothing but mongol food all the
time
yeah the emperor or tianshun emperor if
you prefer
he went after everyone who voted to
leave him for dead and
who sided with electing his brother
emperor
this two-time emperor was followed by
his son the changhua
emperor all of 17 years old not as young
as the eunuchs like their emperors but
still pliable
enough of a stink had been made about
the disastrous foibles of wong chun
eunuchs had to lay low for a while but
by the end of the changhua emperor's
reign
another eunuch insinuated himself into
the
upper echelons of the power structure
and this one
wanger the second eunuch dictator of the
ming dynasty
we'll look at him next time in part four
so much for introducing this topic in
two episodes
hey it's not too late you can help keep
the chp going for at least a couple more
weeks
patreon.com slash china history podcast
that's where you can go to support me
and my sisyphean efforts to bring you
all this
enjoyable chinese history well enjoyable
for me
patreon.com slash china history podcast
i hope you'll consider that
don't want to give you the hard sell
okay this here's lazlo montgomery i
thank you for tuning in and spending
this time with me
please carve out a half hour in a couple
weeks time for what's shaping up to be
another exciting episode of the china
history podcast
and if you can't wait two weeks there's
over 250 hours of stuff
already there that you can go check out
a second time okay
take care everyone